BASIC FILE ENCRYPTION/DECRYPTION
Design a program that can encrypt anddecrypt text files. You can use simplealgorithms like Caesar cipher for this project.
The Caesar Cipher is a monoalphabetic rotation cipher used by Gaius Julius Caesar. Caesar rotated each letter of the plaintext forward three times to encrypt, so that A became D, B became E, etc.
“ATTACK AT DAWN” encrypts to “DWWDFN DW GDZQ” using the Caesar Cipher. Note that rotating three letters is arbitrary; any number of letters (other than 26, assuming an English alphabet) may be rotated for the same effect.
The Shift Cipher
Also known as the Caesar cipher, the shift cipher is one that anyone can readily understand and remember for decoding. It is a form of the substitution cipher. By shifting the alphabet a few positions in either direction, a simple sentence can become unreadable to casual inspection.


TO-DO LIST APPLICATION
Build a console-based to-do list application.Users should be able to add tasks, mark them ascompleted, and view their current tasks.
Definition: A to-do list is a list of items that need to be completed. The items on the list can range from simple activities like replying to an email, to more complex tasks like creating project briefs.
A task is an object with an associated program and thread of control.
thread control :-
In a process, a thread refers to a single sequential activity being executed. these activities are also known as thread of execution or thread control. Now, any operating system process can execute a thread. we can say, that a process can have multiple threads.

SIMPLE DRAWING PROGRAM
C++ For Loop
When you know exactly how many times you want to loop through a block of code, use the for loop instead of a while loop:
Syntax
for (statement 1; statement 2; statement 3) {
  // code block to be executed
}

Statement 1 is executed (one time) before the execution of the code block.
Statement 2 defines the condition for executing the code block.
Statement 3 is executed (every time) after the code block has been executed.
The example below will print the numbers 0 to 4:
Example
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
  cout << i << "\n";
}

Nested Loops
It is also possible to place a loop inside another loop. This is called a nested loop.
The "inner loop" will be executed one time for each iteration of the "outer loop":
Example
// Outer loop
for (int i = 1; i <= 2; ++i) {
  cout << "Outer: " << i << "\n"; // Executes 2 times
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Why we use Ctime library in C++?
The <ctime> library allows us to work with dates and times.
rand() function is an inbuilt function in C++ STL, which is defined in header file <cstdlib>. rand() is used to generate a series of random numbers. The random number is generated by using an algorithm that gives a series of non-related numbers whenever this function is called. The rand() function is used in C++ to generate random numbers in the range [0, RAND_MAX).
srand()
srand() function is an inbuilt function in C++ STL,  which is defined in <cstdlib> header file. srand() is used to initialize random number generators. The srand() function sets the starting point for producing a series of pseudo-random integers. If srand() is not called, the rand() seed is set as if srand(1) were called at the program start. Any other value for seed sets the generator to a different starting point.
The data type string& literally means “a reference to a string object.”

There are 3 things how can the & be meaned:

Reference declaration/parameter.
Address-of operator.
Bitwise And operator.

  // Inner loop
  for (int j = 1; j <= 3; ++j) {
    cout << " Inner: " << j << "\n"; // Executes 6 times (2 * 3)
  }
}
Number Guessing Game

Develop a number guessing game where the
computer randomly selects a number, and the
player has to guess it. Provide hints like "too
high" or "too low" to help the player guess the
correct number
